# WebCrawler-and-NLP-System
### Piper Rains

When perusing through real estate property listings, regardless of a customer’s intention to either rent or buy, the task can prove to be somewhat repetitive. As more listings are viewed, it may become increasingly hard to distinguish between different properties, their unique features, and descriptions.  The difficulty of identifying a property that best suits a customer is more laborious by the sheer volume of different real estate agencies and sites to search through, with an abundance of information online.

By implementing a web scraper, the tedious task of property hunting can be made easy, by presenting all the desired information of a listing in one location. A web scraper can be used to extract all property listings across selected websites and store information such as property region or city, street address, postcode, listed price, property type, features such as bedroom and bathroom counts, as well as a detailed paragraph description of the property. The retrieved data will exist in a data frame, overall allowing for easier comprehension of property options available to a customer. In contrast to listings on a website, where only minimal filtering options exist, merely only to adjust the location, price range, or property type, by storing all property information in a dataset, users can filter to their preferences unrestricted, identifying a home most suited for them. Expanded filtering options could include an ideal number of bedrooms, as well as property ratings and reviews, making for more efficient and refined search results to examine.

Natural language processing (NLP), a technique employed to make sense of natural language computationally via algorithmic and semantic approaches, can be applied to the property dataset (Chowdhury, 2005). In turn, this would allow for more enhanced processing and refining of the data to take place, including a thorough analysis of the text fields such as property description, rather than just standard numerical or keyword statistical analyses. NLP introduces methods such as named-entity recognition, summarisation, text classification, sentiment analysis, and topic modelling.

For the case of real estate data, the two NLP techniques of summarisation and sentiment analysis when implemented could enhance a customer’s property search experience and efficiency. By incorporating the task of summarisation, large chunks of text on property listings such as descriptions can be condensed to only encapsulate the most important and informative information. In turn, this would reduce the time a customer takes to view each listing, as well as provide a brief and unique overview of each listing to help distinguish them for the customer. Implementing sentiment analysis to large chunks of text such as a property description or review field, customers can view the score of each property, generated based on how positive or negative the language being used to describe the property is. With access to such a score, customers can additionally filter through listings depending on what score threshold they are interested in, thus further reducing search time.
